# Field modifiers

## `label`

This allows setting a name which will be used on UI. By default, the name of the field will be used for this. CamelCase will be translated to a user-friendly string automatically. So this modifier is required only if you want to show the user a different label than the field's name.

```dsl
field name: String { label = "Company Name" }
```


## `singular`, `plural`

For collection fields, you can define plural and singular word forms instead of a label. If it's not defined, the system will try to determine the forms automatically based on the English language rules. But it will fail to determine correctly for the words not following the rules.

```dsl
field companies: [Company] {
    singular = "Company"
    plural = "Companies"
}
```


## `visible`

Dynamic visibility of fields. In the example, the `foo` field will be visible only when status will be `Bar`.

```dsl
field status: Status
field foo: String { visible = status == Bar }
```


## `views`

You can set a list of views in which the field should be shown if views are autogenerated.

```dsl
field foo: String { views = [list, form] }
field bar: String { views = [form] }
```

Here the `foo` field will be shown in both `list` and `form` views, but `bar` will be shown only in `form`.


## `from`

For `ref` fields you can set which entities will be shown in selector input.

```dsl
ref field store: IStore {
    from = Store.all.filter(title.contains("Some company"))
}
```

Here the `store` field will show only `IStore` entities with `title` that contains `"Some company"` string.


## `width`

Width in a readable column of the field which will be used in a table view by default. If it is not pointed, the system will determine default width value depending on data type.